Add codec and processor combinations to S3 source (#5288)
opensearch-project/documentation-website: _data-prepper/common-use-cases/codec-processor-combinations.md

parent: Common use cases
nav_order: 25
---

# Codec processor combinations

At ingestion time, data received by the [`s3` source]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/data-prepper/pipelines/configuration/sources/s3/) can be parsed by [codecs]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/data-prepper/pipelines/configuration/sources/s3#codec). which will compress and decompress large sets of data in a certain format before ingestion through a Data Prepper pipelines [processor]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/data-prepper/pipelines/configuration/processors/processors/).

While most codecs can be used with most processors, the following codec processor combinations can help make your pipeline more efficient when using the following input types.

## JSON Array

A [JSON array](https://json-schema.org/understanding-json-schema/reference/array) is used to order elements of different types. Because an array is required in JSON, the data contained within the array must be tabular.

The JSON array does not require a processor. 

## NDJSON

Unlike a JSON array, [NDJSON](https://www.npmjs.com/package/ndjson), each row of data can be delimited by a newline, which means data is processed per-line as opposed to an array.

> The NDJSON input type requires is parsed using the [newline]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/data-prepper/pipelines/configuration/sources/s3#newline-codec) codec, which parses each single line as a single log event. The [parse_json]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}data-prepper/pipelines/configuration/processors/parse-json/) processor then outputs each line as a single event.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The NDJSON input type is parsed using the [newline]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/data-prepper/pipelines/configuration/sources/s3#newline-codec) codec, which parses each single line as a single log event. The [parse_json]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}data-prepper/pipelines/configuration/processors/parse-json/) processor then outputs each line as a single event.
```

> 

Reviewer: Delete extra blank lines

Reviewer: @Naarcha-AWS The comments don't appear to be addressed. This file has several sections with extra blank lines that need to be deleted so that this document is in proper format.

## CSV

> The CSV data type inputs data as a table. It can used without a codec or processor, but it does require one or the other, for example, either just the `csv` processors or the `csv` codec.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The CSV data type inputs data as a table. It can used without a codec or processor, but it does require one or the other, for example, either just the `csv` processor or the `csv` codec.
```

> The CSV input type is most effective with the following codec/processor combinations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The CSV input type is most effective when used with the following codec processor combinations.
```

> ### csv codec

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### CSV codec
```

Author: This is meant to match the codec appears in the code. Its the standard the Data Prepper team wishes to use and is used across the entire Data Prepper guide.

When the [`csv` codec]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/data-prepper/pipelines/configuration/sources/s3#csv-codec) is used without a processor, it automatically detects headers from the CSV and uses them for index mapping.

> ### Newline codec 

Author: ```suggestion
### `newline` codec 
```

> The [csv]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/data-prepper/pipelines/configuration/sources/s3#csv-codec) codec without a processor. When used without a processor, the `csv` codec automatically detects headers from the CSV and uses them for index mapping.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When the [`csv` codec]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/data-prepper/pipelines/configuration/sources/s3#csv-codec) is used without a processor, it automatically detects headers from the CSV and uses them for index mapping.
```

Reviewer: Should this read "...the CSV **file** and..."

> ### newline codec 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Newline codec 
```

> The [newline]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/data-prepper/pipelines/configuration/sources/s3#newline-codec) codec parses each row as a single log event. However, the codec will only detect a header when `header_destination` is configured. Then, the [csv]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/data-prepper/pipelines/configuration/processors/csv/) processor outputs the event into columns. The header detected in `header_destination` from the newline codec can be used in the `csv` processor under `column_names_source_key.`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The [`newline` codec]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/data-prepper/pipelines/configuration/sources/s3#newline-codec) parses each row as a single log event. The codec will only detect a header when `header_destination` is configured. The processor then [csv]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/data-prepper/pipelines/configuration/processors/csv/) outputs the event into columns. The header detected in `header_destination` from the `newline` codec can be used in the `csv` processor under `column_names_source_key.`
```

## Parquet

[Apache Parquet](https://parquet.apache.org/docs/overview/) is a columnar storage format built for Hadoop. It is most efficient without the use of a codec. Positive results, however, can be achieved when it's configured with [S3 Select]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/data-prepper/pipelines/configuration/sources/s3#using-s3_select-with-the-s3-source).

> 

Reviewer: @Naarcha-AWS Delete extra blank lines

> [Apache Parquet](https://parquet.apache.org/docs/overview/) is a columnar storage format built for Hadoop. It is most efficient without the use of a codec, however positive results can be achieved when configured with [S3 Select]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/data-prepper/pipelines/configuration/sources/s3#using-s3_select-with-the-s3-source).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Apache Parquet](https://parquet.apache.org/docs/overview/) is a columnar storage format built for Hadoop. It is most efficient without the use of a codec. Positive results, however, can be achieved when it's configured with [S3 Select]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/data-prepper/pipelines/configuration/sources/s3#using-s3_select-with-the-s3-source).
```

## Avro

> [Apache Avro] helps streamline streaming data pipelines. It is most efficient when used with the [`avro`]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/data-prepper/pipelines/configuration/sinks/s3#avro-codec) codec inside an `s3` sink.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Apache Avro] helps streamline streaming data pipelines. It is most efficient when used with the [`avro` codec]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/data-prepper/pipelines/configuration/sinks/s3#avro-codec) inside an `s3` sink.
```

---
layout: default
title: Codec processor combinations
parent: Common use cases
nav_order: 25
---

# Codec processor combinations

> At ingestion time, data received by the [`s3` source]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/data-prepper/pipelines/configuration/sources/s3/) can be parsed by [codecs]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/data-prepper/pipelines/configuration/sources/s3#codec). which will compress and decompress large sets of data in a certain format before ingestion through a Data Prepper pipelines [processor]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/data-prepper/pipelines/configuration/processors/processors/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
At ingestion time, data received by the [`s3` source]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/data-prepper/pipelines/configuration/sources/s3/) can be parsed by [codecs]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/data-prepper/pipelines/configuration/sources/s3#codec). Codecs compresses and decompresses large data sets in a certain format before ingestion them through a Data Prepper pipeline [processor]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/data-prepper/pipelines/configuration/processors/processors/).
```

> While most codecs can be used with most processors, the following codec processor combinations can help make your pipeline more efficient when using the following input types.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
While most codecs can be used with most processors, the following codec processor combinations can make your pipeline more efficient when used with the following input types.
```

> ## JSON Array

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## JSON array
```

A [JSON array](https://json-schema.org/understanding-json-schema/reference/array) is used to order elements of different types. Because an array is required in JSON, the data contained within the array must be tabular.

The JSON array does not require a processor. 

## NDJSON

> Unlike a JSON array, [NDJSON](https://www.npmjs.com/package/ndjson), each row of data can be delimited by a newline, which means data is processed per-line as opposed to an array.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Unlike a JSON array, [NDJSON](https://www.npmjs.com/package/ndjson) allows for each row of data to be delimited by a newline, meaning data is processed per line instead of an array.
```

## CSV

The CSV data type inputs data as a table. It can used without a codec or processor, but it does require one or the other, for example, either just the `csv` processors or the `csv` codec.

The CSV input type is most effective with the following codec/processor combinations.

### csv codec

The [csv]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/data-prepper/pipelines/configuration/sources/s3#csv-codec) codec without a processor. When used without a processor, the `csv` codec automatically detects headers from the CSV and uses them for index mapping.

### newline codec 

The [newline]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/data-prepper/pipelines/configuration/sources/s3#newline-codec) codec parses each row as a single log event. However, the codec will only detect a header when `header_destination` is configured. Then, the [csv]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/data-prepper/pipelines/configuration/processors/csv/) processor outputs the event into columns. The header detected in `header_destination` from the newline codec can be used in the `csv` processor under `column_names_source_key.`

> ## Parquet

Author: ```suggestion
## parquet
```

Reviewer: Leave the headings capitalized. Use code font in the body text.

Author: Parquet and Avro are the exceptions to the code rule since they represent a data storage format, not something that appears in code.

> [Apache Parquet](https://parquet.apache.org/docs/overview/) is columnar storage format built for Hadoop. It is most efficient without the use of a codec, however positive results can be achieved when paired with the following processors depending on the compression type.

Author: ```suggestion
[Apache Parquet](https://parquet.apache.org/docs/overview/) is a columnar storage format built for Hadoop. It is most efficient without the use of a codec, however positive results can be achieved when paired with the following processors depending on the compression type.
```

> - [Parquet]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/data-prepper/pipelines/configuration/sinks/s3#parquet-codec) |

Author: ```suggestion

```

> - [S3 Select]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/data-prepper/pipelines/configuration/sources/s3#using-s3_select-with-the-s3-source) |

Author: ```suggestion

```

> ## Avro

Author: ```suggestion
## Avro
```

> [Apace Avro] helps streamline streaming data pipelines. It is most efficient when used with the [Avro]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/data-prepper/pipelines/configuration/sinks/s3#avro-codec) inside an `s3` sink.

Author: ```suggestion
[Apache Avro] helps streamline streaming data pipelines. It is most efficient when used with the [`avro`]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/data-prepper/pipelines/configuration/sinks/s3#avro-codec) codec inside an `s3` sink.
```

---
layout: default
title: Codec processor combinations
parent: Common use cases
nav_order: 25
---

# Codec processor combinations

> At ingestion time, data received by the [`s3 source`]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/data-prepper/pipelines/configuration/sources/s3/) can be parsed by codecs, such as [Apache Avro](https://avro.apache.org/docs/1.11.1/specification/). which will compress and decompress large sets of data in a certain format before ingestion through a Data Prepper pipelines [processor]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/data-prepper/pipelines/configuration/processors/processors/).

Reviewer 2: We should only format "s3" as code, not "s3 source." Basically, let's move the back quotes. Thus, this should be:

> by the [`s3` source]

> At ingestion time, data received by the [`s3 source`]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/data-prepper/pipelines/configuration/sources/s3/) can be parsed by codecs, such as [Apache Avro](https://avro.apache.org/docs/1.11.1/specification/). which will compress and decompress large sets of data in a certain format before ingestion through a Data Prepper pipelines [processor]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/data-prepper/pipelines/configuration/processors/processors/).

Reviewer 2: > such as [Apache Avro]

I recommend starting with a codec like JSON over Avro. JSON is probably the most popular codec.

> At ingestion time, data received by the [`s3 source`]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/data-prepper/pipelines/configuration/sources/s3/) can be parsed by codecs, such as [Apache Avro](https://avro.apache.org/docs/1.11.1/specification/). which will compress and decompress large sets of data in a certain format before ingestion through a Data Prepper pipelines [processor]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/data-prepper/pipelines/configuration/processors/processors/).

Author: ```suggestion
At ingestion time, data received by the [s3 source]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/data-prepper/pipelines/configuration/sources/s3/) can be parsed by codecs, such as [Apache Avro](https://avro.apache.org/docs/1.11.1/specification/). which will compress and decompress large sets of data in a certain format before ingestion through a Data Prepper pipelines [processor]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/data-prepper/pipelines/configuration/processors/processors/).
```

While most codecs can be used with most processors, the following codec processor combinations can help make your pipeline more efficient when using the following input types.

## JSON Array

A [JSON array](https://json-schema.org/understanding-json-schema/reference/array) is used to order elements of different types. Because an array is required in JSON, the data contained within the array must be tabular.

The JSON array is most effective with the following codec processor combination. 

| **Compression type** | **Codec** | **Processor** |
|---|---|---|

> | None /gzip/ Automatic |[JSON]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/data-prepper/pipelines/configuration/sources/s3#json-codec) | [parse_json]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}data-prepper/pipelines/configuration/processors/parse-json/) | 

Reviewer 2: Do we need the compression type column? That is unrelated to the processor/codec.

> | None /gzip/ Automatic |[JSON]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/data-prepper/pipelines/configuration/sources/s3#json-codec) | [parse_json]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}data-prepper/pipelines/configuration/processors/parse-json/) | 

Reviewer 2: > [JSON]

Please make this lowercase:

> [json]

> | None /gzip/ Automatic |[JSON]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/data-prepper/pipelines/configuration/sources/s3#json-codec) | [parse_json]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}data-prepper/pipelines/configuration/processors/parse-json/) | 

Reviewer 2: When using the `json` codec, the user does not need to use the `parse_json` processor. Indeed, for most use-cases, the user shouldn't use `parse_json`.

> | None /gzip/ Automatic |[JSON]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/data-prepper/pipelines/configuration/sources/s3#json-codec) | [parse_json]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}data-prepper/pipelines/configuration/processors/parse-json/) | 

Author: Do we have JSON processor besides `parse_JSON`?

Reviewer 2: No, `parse_json` is the only JSON processor we have.

Author: So do they need a processor at all when using the JSON codec?

Reviewer 2: When using the `json` codec, users don't need a processor. Their data will already be somewhat ready.

Keep in mind that customers may wish to use any number of processors after the data has been parsed to normalize data, remove data, etc.

## NDJSON

Unlike a JSON array, [NDJSON](https://www.npmjs.com/package/ndjson), each row of data can be delimited by a newline, which means data is processed per-line as opposed to an array.

The NDJSON input type is most effective with the following codec processor combination.

| **Compression type** | **Codec** | **Processor** |
|---|---|---|---|

> | None /gzip/ Automatic | [Newline]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/data-prepper/pipelines/configuration/sources/s3#newline-codec)  | 

Reviewer 2: > [Newline]

This should be all lowercase:

> [newline]

> | None /gzip/ Automatic | [Newline]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/data-prepper/pipelines/configuration/sources/s3#newline-codec)  | 

Reviewer 2: When using the `newline` to read ND-JSON data, users need to use the `parse_json` processor. So that should be added here.

## CSV

The CSV data type inputs data as a table. It can used without a codec or processor, but it does require the one or the other. 

The CSV input type is most effective with the following codec processor combinations.

> | **Compression type** | **Codec** | **Processor** | **Limitations**

Reviewer 2: I wonder if the table format is the right way to convey this to users. It seems that we could have the following instead.

1. Some example data
2. A paragraph on the data and the configuration
3. A sample pipeline configuration, or perhaps just a partial configuration.

Reviewer: @Naarcha-AWS Did this comment from @dlvenable get addressed? He needs to write this section based on his comments, as they are technical in nature and he is the SME.

|---|---|---|---|---|

> | None /gzip/ Automatic | [CSV]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/data-prepper/pipelines/configuration/sources/s3#csv-codec) | None | Header is automatically detected and used for index mapping with the CSV codec. |

Reviewer 2: > [CSV]

This should be lowercase:

> [csv]

> | None /gzip/ Automatic | [Newline]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/data-prepper/pipelines/configuration/sources/s3#newline-codec) | [CSV]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/data-prepper/pipelines/configuration/processors/csv/) | Header is detected if `header_destination` is configured in the `newline` codec. <br>The header can be used in the CSV processor under `column_names_source_key`. |

Reviewer 2: Again, let's be consistent with the case:

> [Newline]

to:

> [newline]

And:

> [CSV]

to:

> [csv]

| None /gzip/ Automatic | None | [CSV]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/data-prepper/pipelines/configuration/processors/csv/) | N/A |

## Parquet

[Apache Parquet](https://parquet.apache.org/docs/overview/) is columnar storage format built for Hadoop. It is most efficient without the use of a codec, however positive results can be achieved when paired with the following processors depending on the compression type.

| **Compression type** | **Processor** |
|---|---|

> | None /gzip/ Automatic | [Parquet]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/data-prepper/pipelines/configuration/sinks/s3#parquet-codec) |

Reviewer 2: I think that a table may not convey the best way to convey this. For one, using the `parquet` codec versus using `s3_select` is a decision that may require some additional consideration. And the way you configure `s3_select` is different.

Author: What additional considerations?
